# Assessment-of-the-factors-that-influence-contraceptive-method-choice-using-association-rule-mining
Various socio-economic factors such as level of education, standard of living and religion affect choice of contraceptive method. The aim of this task is to identify interesting associations and relationships among these socio-economic factors that influence contraceptive method choice using association rule mining.

The dataset for this exercise was obtained from UCI Machine Learning Repository. The dataset is a part of the 1987 National Indonesia Contraceptive Prevalence Survey. The samples are of married women who were not pregnant at the time of the interview or did not know if they were.

http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Contraceptive+Method+Choice.

# Results analysis
The aim of this task was to identify the rules governing contraceptive method choice. Lift values very close to 1 indicate the rules are independent and occurring no more than would be expected if there was no association with them. For ‘no use’ we can see that older adult and Islam have the highest lift of approximately 1.1 as seen on fig 45. From fig 48, good media exposure, islam and wife not working has the highest lift of 1.1. The minimum support and confidence for long term as RHS had to be reduced to 1.0 because no rules met the minimum support of 2.0. The highest lift for long term use as RHS is good media exposure, older adult and tertiary level education is approximately 2.0, this means that association rule of women with good media exposure with tertiary level of education, who are older adults and tend to use long term contraceptive, occurs twice as much as would be expected if there was no association between their socio-economic characteristics. We found no interesting associations between the wifes husbands’ occupation and other socio-economic factors in women’s choice of contraceptive use. 
Most of the time, association rule mining algorithms find a tonne of rules, but they cannot prove that every rule they find is meaningful and relevant. The need to specify the attributes that must or cannot be present in the antecedent or consequent of the discovered rules poses a significant constraint, despite the fact that support and confidence allow the pruning of many associations. The identified associations can also be pruned using some subjective metrics like unexpectedness and actionability. Actionability refers to the rules that are interesting if we can use them to our advantage, while unexpectedness refers to the rules that are interesting if they are unknown to us or contradict our knowledge.
